[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Who are you?
I have come up with a one word
response to this question,
and the word is memory.
Your entire existence originates
from the memory delivered
in the form of DNA,
RNA, chromosomes,
and other forms of
physical memory transfer.
In addition, you are the
ongoing transformation
of energy as consciousness.
My name is Randy Veitenheimer.
From studying human health
and energetic fields
and practicing energetic
medicine with thousands
of clients over
the past 40 years,
I have filled a
lot of notebooks.
I'm grateful for all
my meditation teachers,
martial arts instructors,
Native American mentors,
and enlightened teachers
of consciousness.
My intent in sharing
this information
is that you will
be able to increase
your own ability to be healthy.
The owner's manual for a
human being is inside you.
This manual exists as
human consciousness.
The human consciousness
manual that exists inside you
knows your history, your nature,
experiences, and potential.
So let's dive in.
[THEME MUSIC]
Let's explain the
universe inside you.
You have an internal landscape.
Peaks and valleys,
oceans, the mountains,
things that are joyful, and
things that are not pleasant.
This internal landscape is
where you actually live.
People think they exist
in the external world.
But we really live in
our internal landscape,
one of our own making, and
one of our own accumulation.
So where we physically
live, grow up,
and work are our reference set.
It's the data field we occupy.
This is all external
information.
And out of that we
develop a preference set.
And a preference set
is what we prefer
to have in our reference set.
For example, what
color do you like?
Also as an example, we
can look at a video game.
When you play a video game, you
set the landscape, the people
you play with, and the
skill sets you want to use.
Life is no different.
These are all
preferences that you
enjoy in a new external game.
And they apply to
life in reality.
The preference set in real
life becomes an operational set
in your everyday life.
Operational sets can be viewed
as habits, training, routines.
We haven't said these are
good or bad yet because they
can be either or both, depending
on the situations you're in.
Operational sets get a
bad or good reputation
because it is transactional
with the field of existence,
which includes the fields of
people, places, and things.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So let's say you like people
who drive motorcycles.
You like their attitude, their
style, and the adventure of it.
But you meet someone who
doesn't own a motorcycle,
and they don't like
your motorcycle.
In a sense, you're picking
up that they don't like you
because your operational set
says you like people who drive
motorcycles, and they don't.
In this reality,
you would signal
what you like with wardrobe,
devices, tattoos, and things
to let people know what
our preferences are.
People like to play with people
with the same preferences
because it validates their
existence in this reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So what we are using our
reference points to create
are preference points that
better serve who we really
are and thus create an
operational system that
is a source of joy
instead of pain.
This creates
operational success.
We can arrive there through
meditation and contemplation,
or we can be pushed
there through conflict.
Normally humans are pushed by
conflict and not meditation
to examine their preferences
and operational systems.
But why is conflict important?
Conflict allows contrast.
We can take any kind of
moment and examine, what
was our point of participation?
And when we do
that, we shouldn't
use judgment but
observation of what
did you like about your
participation in it.
How did you feel?
From this point, you can
come to your own preference
set without using your
previous reference set.
And then you're truly making
decisions based on who you are
and using your abilities
consciously and accordingly.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So how do we examine your
life without judgment?
Most people avoid sitting
down and meditating
or practicing looking at
their life without judgment.
People avoid this by
flipping through the remote
of their lives.
They are always moving on
to the next person or thing
instead of stopping
to focus on something.
This causes non-reflection
on the internal landscape.
Nothing that you
can grasp externally
will really make your
preference set better.
In the previous episode,
we talked about a couple
of things I teach
in martial arts.
Awareness is the first
martial art I teach.
Balance is the
second one, where we
balance our internal
and external landscapes.
Moment, timing under heaven,
or going with the flow,
learning when to do things.
Movement, learning
what to move and where
to go with that movement.
And then once we start moving in
any particular direction, even
self-improvement, we start
having some momentum.
Something that
carries us forward
without too much more input.
And the sixth one is the
use of the will, which means
you use your will to change.
Think of the idea of quitting
smoking or drinking or losing
weight.
That is the use of the will.
You are changing
your preference set
and using your will to do it.
All these are involved in coming
to a greater understanding
of what it is to be ourselves.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
You can see why now conflict
is a catalyst for change
because we ignore our
internal landscape until it
can't be ignored.
And the conflict shows up
in our external reality.
Number one reality.
So what happens when
you use your will
to change your preference set?
The conflict internally
and externally
doesn't happen because
you have matched who
you are to your surroundings.
If we go back to what
drains our energy
and our ability to
move forward in life,
it is internal conflict
between your reference
set in your preference
set and your memory.
You might say things like,
I like my job, but I prefer.
This causes internal
conflict, and now we
have an energy drain Energy
drains like this one cause
aging, fatigue, disease,
and depression and anxiety
by the absence of
the energy you need
to maintain your life in an
orderly and healthy fashion.
Now let's talk
about your memory.
You come preloaded from
birth onto this planet
with a reference set that
are encoded in your DNA, RNA,
and chromosomes.
So life becomes a
constant interplay
between what you were
given at pre-birth
and then all your experiences
and all the preferences
you have developed.
So now you need to decide,
what are my real preference
sets based on my experiences
and not my genetic encoding?
Life begins with a
set of templates.
Those templates carry
something like a trillion
to the fourth power of memory.
None of these are activated
until energy flows
through them.
So your brain is not
capable of handling
the total amount of memory
that exists in the universe.
What happens is
your energy field
itself acts as a
memory depository.
All those sit there in
a form of data memory
that's electromagnetic.
And we access it either
consciously or non-consciously.
And the greater part of it
is accessed non-consciously.
We try to bury our memories.
We try to deny access to them.
We hold them or block
them because the way
the human being
experiences reality
is largely related to learning.
And learning is
based in negatives.
So that if you
hurt yourself, you
would store that memory so that
you wouldn't do that again.
Negative memories
serve a purpose.
And that purpose is for
the survival of the self
and survival of the species.
Good memories do not
carry the same charge
that negative memories do.
In fact, it takes about
25 positive experiences
to overcome the energy
state of a negative memory.
So this is where epigenetic
change can come into play.
You, as a mother, could
be scared to death
so many times that
you change your DNA
and pass on those
fears to your child.
These changes that
occurred in the mother
were then passed onto the child.
The child never had
those experiences.
This goes also for
you as an individual.
Something might have happened
to you that changes your DNA
and how you react to things
in your reference set.
These are memories that have
altered your view of the world.
You need to figure
out what is truly you
and what has been
programmed inside of you.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Self-contemplation
through meditation
is the way to break
through these programs.
There are all sorts of
meditation practices
you can try, and it's important
to find one that works for you.
I teach something very simple.
I teach finding a quiet
spot in the evening.
Sit with your back
straight against the wall.
And against the wall
allows you to feel safe
instead of on edge.
Then you close your eyes
and do a review of your day.
And do it without judgment,
and do it quickly.
This takes practice.
But once you have been able
to review your life daily
without judgment, you can
move on to the next step.
The next step is called
the path of negation.
The path of negation is
to say, I am not that.
For example, I'm not tired,
I'm not angry, I'm not sad,
I'm not unfulfilled.
And basically, I am
not all of these things
that drain energy out of me.
I am me.
And we repeat this process a
few times until the tension
comes out of the body.
This process helps focus on
what defines your universe
inside you.
And the greatest thing
to say in the world
is that you are yourself.
There are three
terms that we could
use to explain the
universe inside us
and how that dictates the
universe on the outside
that you interact with.
Those terms would be
translation, transformation,
and transcendence.
These are processes that
we go through every day.
Every interaction you have
with somebody is a translation.
Their actions, you translate.
And you translate these
through all the filters
of your consciousness.
The filters of
your consciousness
can be as simple as somebody
wants to take me for ice cream.
Do I have permission?
Do I deserve ice cream?
Maybe I ate too
much food this week.
Is this good for me?
Does this help me?
Does this move me forward?
Is this beneficial?
And those are additional
filters that we
use to translate all
the information that
goes on around this.
All this adds up to
a tremendous amount
of processing capacity
devoted to just trying
to make sense out of reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you have made it through
this translation program
and something important
comes up as a result
of that contemplation
of those actions,
you actually go into a
state of transformation.
You would be willing to
change your viewpoint.
And as we all know, there
are certain subjects--
politics, religion, love--
where this is very difficult.
The difficulty arises
either in the perception
of our translation.
Are we right?
Self-doubt is where
this comes from.
And so self-doubt itself becomes
a hindrance, or a handicap,
to going into transformation,
where we transform ourselves
from one state of
consciousness to another.
Or from one economic
level to another,
from one location to another,
because transformation
occurs in our own
consciousness, in our own body,
in our own locations,
in our own reality.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
If you make it all the way
through transformation,
now you get into transcendence.
Transcendence is
specifically related
to a contemplative or meditative
outcome, where the ideal is
to recognize reality and
recognize everything that goes
on in it to the
point that you escape
or transcend the actions,
the Karma, the outcomes,
the consequences.
This happens because you're able
to perceive the sequences that
are involved.
And as a result, you tend
to make better decisions.
Ultimately, this ends up in
being a better preference set.
So the advancement
of consciousness
becomes a source of a
better reference set
to relate to reality and to
not be so engaged in that
which is negative and
become more engaged
in that which is positive.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
How do we get there?
Being neutral.
Neutral is a very
interesting place.
It is probably the best
meditative technique.
People ask, what do you
think of this or how
do you feel about this?
And the answer
would be, I don't.
What that means is, I devote
no energy to that idea
or that thought.
This can even extend into things
like heat and cold, the weather
conditions, where
you find yourself.
Because if you devote
energy in a negative way,
it drains you of energy.
And that energy is no longer
available for the functioning
of your body, let
alone your mind.
So to be neutral really
is kind of a first step.
If you can get
yourself to this point,
if you can go through your
day and look at the negatives
and look at the positives and
at the end of it be neutral,
that is what it
means to be relaxed.
Everybody tells you, be relaxed.
How about, be neutral?
Being neutral means you don't
have to make a decision,
a decision isn't
required of you,
a choice isn't required
of you, and you don't
have to devote energy to it.
If you can practice
neutrality, you
have the option of moving
up in your consciousness.
Otherwise, you're
too attached to it.
But as you go beyond these and
engage your internal landscape
more, you come to value
the concept of yourself.
And in doing so,
you come to value
the concept of
everybody and everything
else as something that
is neutral or beneficial
or ultimately as great.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
All existence is
a wonderful thing.
Only in humans do we find
self-sacrifice as a way
to squander the life
force that we accumulate
every day and every night.
So to retain that
life force means
that you go into the
next day with a bigger
charge, with a bigger
capacity, with more energy.
And in doing so, you actually
provide for your own,
not only relief, but you
provide for your own advancement
and the ability
to engage reality
at a new level that
doesn't include
the negative so much as a
requirement to go through life.
If you look at the news,
always the negative comes up.
Just your awareness of
this should alert you
that the positive also exists
and that to be positive
is a way to retain energy.
So as we come out from under
the negative emotional states,
we do that by being
able to be neutral.
And from that, we come
to the understanding
of what it means to be
able to transform ourselves
inside ourselves.
And from that transformation
comes our transcendence
to one of the highest
states of consciousness
we can experience and
still be in this universe
and still be alive.
Now that we understand
the universe inside us,
how does movement
make you more aware?
How does this affect your mind?
I am your host,
Randy Veitenheimer.
Stay tuned for the
next episode as we
explore more
fundamental elements
on getting back to yourself.
[THEME MUSIC]